[OOSAWA humming]
[gasps]
What's this?
Seems that our meeting
wasn't a coincidence.
[SHIRAISHI] From the way
Botaro the Pirate was talking,
I think it's more likely
than not that he's
already figured out where the
Ainu first hid all their gold.
But he also said that it
won't be enough to find it.
So we still have time.
And what about the rumors
that the tattooed skins
are worthless now?
You think they're true.
I say we should ignore them
and keep up the search.
It could be a ploy to get us
to stop gathering skins.
Yeah, maybe.
Anyway, let's just pretend
to work with him
and see what we can learn.
[OOSAWA]
Well.
We've made it to the
last stop, Ebetsu Port.
I suppose being my citizens
wasn't in the cards for you.
By the way...
I'm curious, how much gold
did you hear was hidden?
Twenty kan, right?
According to what
the old Ainu men said,
they filled deerskin bags about
this big to nearly bursting.
One bag weighed about 16 kan.
And there were over
1,200 of them.
There's a whole mountain
of gold hidden away.
[SHIRAISHI whimpering]
[sighs]
[OOSAWA] What do you think?
Quite the story, huh?
Such a shame we won't be
able to chase it together.
[BOTH gasp]
[gun clicks]
[gasps]
He went through our backpack!
[gasping]
[grunting]
[SUGIMOTO snarls]
[CAPTAIN 47A grunts]
[OOSAWA grunting]
[gasping]
[yelling]
[grunting]
[OOSAWA blubbering]
Gondo, watch out!
[bones cracking, splurting]
[gasps]
[grunting]
[SUGIMOTO grunting]
[SUGIMOTO growling]
[grunting]
[SUGIMOTO blubbering]
Back off!
[coughs]
[grunts]
[OOSAWA]
Heh.
[SUGIMOTO grunting]
Hey, Asirpa, are you
able to swim?!
If it's not too deep--
[SHIRAISHI]
Just stay there!
[SUGIMOTO growling]
[SUGIMOTO grunting]
[coughs]
[chorus]
Ah...
[SHIRAISHI blubbering]
[SUGIMOTO]
Uh-uh!
[grunts]
[funeral bell dings]
[yells]
[grunts]
[ASIRPA]
Pisikorkamuychep!
Those're yupe!
[blubbering] Let go of me,
you pirate bastard!
[grunting]
[OOSAWA grunting]
[growling]
[gasps]
--You're all right!
--[wheezing]
[groaning]
[yells]
[NARRATOR] At the time, it was
said sturgeon would travel up
the Ishikari River
in huge schools.
Some say the name "Ebetsu"
came from the Ainu "yupe ot."
Which, when translated,
roughly means
"there are many sturgeon."
[blubbers]
[CAPTAIN 47A] Looks like
the paddle wheel's broken.
So we can't dock.
We're stuck here until
we get a replacement.
Sorry, that's our fault.
Huh?
[CAPTAIN 47A]
Thanks to you assholes,
my ship is a complete mess!
Get lost already!
--[SHIRAISHI chuckles]
--[ASIRPA] Hey. The platinum.
Heita.
Oh. Yeah, you're right.
Now, you.
[OOSAWA]
Hmm.
Why don't we all work together?
[gasping]
I thought you saved me
because you wanted information.
You know what Boss Wakayama
said about the code--
you're wasting your time.
[SUGIMOTO] Regardless,
we're still going to search
for the tattooed skins.
So, what, you want me to help
you find the prisoners?
I already told you, there's
no way you're ever gonna
crack the code.
I understand that
yakuza boss's thinking.
It makes a lot of sense.
But at this moment, there are
two groups that have gotten
their hands on the vast
majority of the skins.
Toshizou Hijikata and
Lieutenant Tsurumi.
Why would two people as
intelligent and cunning as them
still be searching
for the convicts?
There's more at play.
Oh, right, that's a good point!
So you just needed another body
to help steal the skins?
That's the reason
you decided to save me?
[SHIRAISHI]
Hold on, Sugimoto.
Don't tell me--
did you save Botaro's life
because you felt
sympathy for the guy?
This is only a hunch.
But something tells me
that finding where the Ainu
first buried the
gold could be useful.
In fact, it may be the key
to turning the tables
on Toshizou Hijikata and
Lieutenant Tsurumi,
and finally getting
a leg up on them.
One option would be to
torture him into giving it up.
Although, anything
we learned that way
wouldn't be trustworthy.
So we have to work together.
[OOSAWA sighs]
You don't have to lie.
I know the truth.
You saved me because you've
taken a liking to me.
You big softie!
[OOSAWA]
I'll help.
But I'm only going to
give you the information
after you've collected
all the skins.
For my own protection,
of course.
[SHIRAISHI] Are you sure
about this, Sugimoto?
He might try to steal
all the gold for himself
after we find it.
Isn't that what you're planning?
[SHIRAISHI grunts]
Ah! Look who decided to show up!
Let's go further down the river.
Just a little more.
[SUGIMOTO]
Hey, Asirpa. What are you doing?
What's that?
Oh. I'm adding a "kite"
to a rod I found.
We normally only carry the tip
with us and use a suitable stick
we find nearby.
Didn't you use that
on the whale?
[ASIRPA]
Yup. You remembered!
So you're gonna hunt sturgeon?
It's a delicacy!
Unless you're not
interested.
[SUGIMOTO grunts]
Wait. Sure.
What is your relationship
with this girl, Sugimoto?
Asirpa is my guide.
For Hokkaido.
[OOSAWA] Mm. You got
pretty riled up back there
for just a guide.
[SUGIMOTO] You put Asirpa
in danger, you shithead!
Made me think she was someone
who meant a bit more to you.
[SUGIMOTO] Whoa! Look at
all those fish eggs!
We had them pickled in salt
when we were in Russia.
Are they normally
stuffed in its belly?
[ASIRPA] Traditionally speaking,
the meat of a yupe is eaten raw.
Sometimes, we make a stew
with the black eggs,
and other parts of the fish.
And we can't forget the brains!
I'd love to feed you some now,
but the skull's really
hard to break open!
I'm sorry. Just wait a second.
[growling] I'll get you
some brains soon, okay?
Yay... I can't wait
to try them out...
[SHIRAISHI chuckling]
So, Asirpa. Do you like
eating sturgeon brains?
I enjoy all types
of animal brains.
They taste especially
good salted.
When you like someone,
it's only natural for you
to want them to like
the things you like.
--[ASIRPA] You talk too much!
--[OOSAWA grunting]
--Shut up and eat!
[OOSAWA]
Do you have a family, Asirpa?
I do. My grandmother.
[OOSAWA]
Only your grandmother?
I get the sense you've
been traveling together
for a while now.
Wouldn't she be worried
if you're away too long?
It'll be dangerous
to travel with us.
You should go home.
[GROUP slurping]
So you're determined
to stay with them.
Oh! Sturgeon eggs are so much
tastier when they're fresh!
For some reason,
they go really well with vodka!
It's because the
alcohol washes away
that fishy aftertaste,
of course!
[ASIRPA] The reason
I'm here isn't because
I want to be with them.
There's more to it.
There's something
I have to accomplish.
Nothing else matters.
[ASIRPA] Here's an ohaw
with black eggs
and pisikorkamuychep filet.
Here you go! The brains!
[SUGIMOTO]
Mm! Hinna, hinna, hinna!
What are you guys doing?
[SOFIA laughing]
Khorosho!
[CROWD cheering]
[KIKUTA]
So, what now, Private Usami?
I thought that your theory
about the killer returning
to the scene of
the crime was plausible.
But is your plan
to wait all day for him?
We have no idea
when he could arrive.
On top of that,
there are two murder sites.
Seems to me it'd be quicker
if we asked the whores
what they know.
--Ah?!
--[USAMI grunting]
[KIKUTA]
What are you doing?!
[USAMI]
No, it's not here...
Here? No, not quite.
Is it this way?
--Hey!
--[USAMI] Please, shut up!
Don't talk to me right now!
[USAMI] Here! This position,
facing this way.
It feels right!
I can't be seen from
the nearby buildings.
And it's hidden from the road!
At worst, I can run and
no one will see my face!
[huffing]
[squeals]
[whines]
[sighs]
The hell was that?
Huh?
[USAMI]
Where is it? Where did it go?
[KIKUTA] Usami! Your
clothes will get dirty.
[USAMI sniffing]
There you are...
I found it.
You're going to want to see
this, Warrant Officer Kikuta.
I'm not interested
in looking at your sperm.
Disgusting.
No, this is from the killer.
He came back here,
exactly as I suspected.
And then afterwards,
he CAME back here!
Hmm... From the state
of these clumps...
Don't touch it!
You might catch something!
[sniffing] He comes back
once every two days.
The last time he was here
was two days ago.
[sniffs] He'll return to
the scene of the crime tonight.
You figured all that out?
You're a regular
sperm detective, huh?
I remember what
Lieutenant Tsurumi said.
[TSURUMI] I think you'll
find Usami uniquely suited
to this task.
[KIKUTA]
Is this what he meant by that?
[USAMI]
Let me give it another round.
This time, I should be able to
determine his age and height
from the amount and
distance of the splatter.
[KIKUTA] I never realized you
had such a special talent.
[huffing]
[growls]
[BOTH huffing]
What the hell is happening?!
This man's the killer!
Ahn!
[KILLER grunting]
[huffing]
[USAMI gasps]
[KIKUTA]
Cut it out, both of you!
[KILLER huffs]
Go that way and cut him off!
[panting]
[USAMI panting]
[USAMI grunts]
[horse whinnies]
[grunts]
[KIKUTA panting]
[grunting, growling]
[KILLER growls]
Got you!
[KILLER huffing]
[gasps]
Ah!
[KILLER growls]
Ahn!
[screams]
Are you all right,
Warrant Officer Kikuta?
[KIKUTA groans]
It got in my eyes!
[KIKUTA, USAMI panting]
[shrieking]
[BOTH gasp]
We were chasing after him.
How did he have time to do this?
[KILLER]
What do we have here...?
Good evening, miss.
Oh, hello there.
Where are you off to
in such a rush, Mister?
[huffing]
[growls]
[grunts]
[sighs] With this, you shall
be absolved of all your sins.
You're forgiven. How wonderful.
[KIKUTA] He murdered
another two last night.
It could be his way
of covering his escape.
Or maybe he was just
trying to screw with us.
[USAMI]
It could be unrelated...
Perhaps he already decided he'd
kill before running into us.
You think he's
going to come back?
Now that there are
four crime scenes to watch,
we might not be able
to do this alone.
It's likely he'll make even more
holy places for himself.
[KIKUTA]
"Holy places"?!
Even though we let that bastard
slip through our fingers,
I did get a good
look at his face.
Not to mention that
weird mark on his dick.
[USAMI] Why don't we go take
a look at the other body?
There's a big crowd
gathered around it.
We might recognize someone.
I'll catch up with you.
I gotta take a leak.
[USAMI]
Hmph.
[KIKUTA] What are you
doing, Private Ariko?
[gasps]
[KIKUTA]
Don't move.
[grunts]
[KIKUTA] Did you think I
wouldn't recognize your figure
after seeing it so many times?
If you were in Sapporo to help,
Lieutenant Tsurumi
would've informed us.
Are you with Toshizou Hijikata?
[ARIKO] I haven't had
a single moment alone.
That's why I couldn't make
my report to Lieutenant Tsurumi.
We can't let anybody
see us like this.
Shinpachi Nagakura was
with me not too long ago
They still don't trust me,
no matter what I do.
Same goes for the 7th.
I can't do my job when
everyone suspects me.
Why don't you work for me, then?
[gasps]
I'm serious. Listen carefully.
I'm the only one
who believes you.
Forget about what your
Ainu father wanted.
Forget about the relatives
Lieutenant Tsurumi threatened.
Following either will
only lead to a dead end.
The government ordered me to
let the 7th find the gold,
then kill the Lieutenant.
Hold on. You're a spy
for the government?
[KILLER humming]
Hear me...
for I am your child.
News here! Get your news!
[HIJIKATA]
Goldfish! Goldfish!
[ELDERLY WOMAN 48A] You know, it
just doesn't feel like spring's
really here until the goldfish
seller comes back into town.
Goldfish here!
Fireworks. Fireworks!
[gasps]
You two are pretty
hard to miss--
you're the scariest komusou
monks I've ever seen.
Shame I can't hide my muscles.
--[tinging]
--[GROUP] Hmm?
[KADOKURA]
He has a point.
You should avoid disguises
that make you stand out.
[USHIYAMA] What the hell are
you supposed to be, Kadokura?
[KADOKURA whimpering]
[gasps]
[KIRAWUS]
You're one to talk.
You stick out like a sore thumb.
There's been a new development
in the murder case.
The cocky bastard behind
the killings recently sent
a letter to the newspapers.
Inside the envelope
was a human kidney.
It coincides with
the fourth victim,
who had her right
kidney removed.
What an absolute lunatic.
[TAKUBOKU] It took them ages to
decipher what the letter said.
Apparently, it
was barely legible.
Through the terrible scrawl,
it read, "Whores are sinners."
And the killer swore
that he'd kill again.
After hearing about the letter,
I finally realized.
The man killing people is
a copycat of Jack the Ripper.
Who's that?
[TAKUBOKU]
You don't know about him?
Jack the Ripper is said to be
the person behind a series
of famous killings that
took place in London.
His deeds had all of England
trying to catch him.
In 1888, it was reported by
several newspapers in Japan.
I'm surprised you
hadn't heard of him--
it was quite a big story.
Targeting prostitutes
and cutting their throats.
It matches his M.O. exactly,
down to the removal of
the victim's organs.
But that's not all.
[GROUP]
Hmm?
[TAKUBOKU] There was
another thing that made him
such a big deal in England.
Jack the Ripper sent a letter to
the papers mocking the police,
and publicly declaring that
he would kill again.
You see, no one had ever sent
that kind of message before.
Afterwards, there were
hundreds of similar letters sent
by copycats who
lacked any creativity.
And while a large number of
prostitutes were murdered
around the same time,
only five were recognized
as Jack the Ripper's victims.
He started killing women
at one-month intervals
after the first victim.
Interestingly,
the third and fourth
were both slain the same night.
The Sapporo murders
follow this pattern exactly.
It's uncanny how accurate it is.
This is no mere copycat.
I'd say he's a Jack
the Ripper fanatic.
One part of what made
his case so famous was that
after he was done, the killer
completely disappeared
without leaving a trace.
The Ripper's final murder
was performed exactly
40 days after his fourth.
Some speculate there
was something special
about the number five.
So there's a chance
the killer will simply vanish
if we can't track
him down in time?
It appears we have
little more than a month
to find and apprehend this man.
We have to stop him,
no matter what!
[USHIYAMA] Hmm. So even
Takuboku Ishikawa gets riled up.
My favorite prostitute got
scared by all the murders
and ran away to Tokyo!
We have to catch this copycat
killer as soon as possible,
so I can bring her
back to Sapporo!
Of course, it was for something
like that, you piece of shit.
Anyway. There's been
another development recently
that's caught my attention.
Hey, Sugimoto.
You see this article?
You mean the one about the new
victims they found in Sapporo?
No, this one's about
something else.
Apparently, a bunch of kids
have been disappearing lately.
According to this, the last
three went missing in Ebetsu.
But we just came from there!
A child kidnapper?
Could it be...?
What is it?
[OOSAWA]
Sounds like Keiji Ueji.
He was arrested after they
found a bunch of kids buried
in his yard. His face
is covered in tattoos
that look like
children's scribbles.
The peddler!
[SUGIMOTO, SHIRAISHI gasp]
So you met him, then?
He's one of the escaped
Abashiri convicts.
[SUGIMOTO]
Hmm...
There have been a concerningly
large number of children
who have gone missing
all over Hokkaido.
These incidents aren't
localized to a single place.
First it was Asahikawa,
Utashinai, Iwamizawa.
Then, Ebetsu.
It seems like he's
headed towards Sapporo.
What's going on?
I have a bad feeling about this.
[TSURUMI]
We've received a telegram
from Warrant Officer Kikuta.
Two of you will stay here and
continue looking for Asirpa.
Everybody else will be
coming with me.
We'll be heading off to Sapporo!
Please, I have a sick father
to take care of.
Any help would be appreciated.
[USHIYAMA]
Hey, Ogata! We're leaving!
[NARRATOR] Next time:
"The Vanished Kamuy"!